and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I'm sharing
actionable Beauty marketing website and
SEO tips useful podcasts goodies and
more why not give it a try over at
business growth dot email
so joining me today I've got Adam tussle
Adam's the director of customer
activation over activecampaign Adam a
warm welcome how are we doing great
thank you so much for having me you are
more than welcome sir looking forward to
getting stuck into today's topic we're
gonna be chatting how marketing
automation improves B2B growth
so when I think of marketing automation
Adam I I bit like we're recording
talking about off off there I usually
think of things like email sequences or
maybe zapier throwing things in when
people download a guide and they get
checked into kind of some kind of Auto
email sequence but I know there's so
much more to it so for anyone that's not
too familiar with marketing automation
what does it actually mean in today's
world from a B2B perspective yeah a
great question uh I think that it's
Origins started with what exactly what
you described so you know early days it
was send an email wait a couple days
send an email wait a couple days and
that was that was marketing automation
it was really straightforward nowadays
so many platforms
have many more options as far as what
you can do so even if you think about
active campaign when we started doing
marketing automation our first version
had four triggers of how you could start
the automation we now have well over 20
probably close to 30 right so there's
much more capabilities where I think
marketing automation is incredibly
powerful in 2023 is
gathering data inside of your tool
whether it be the CRM that you're using
the marketing automation platform or a
combination of those things that you
know a lot of tools have both
and then using that data to send
intentional messaging and that could be
something like a Facebook custom
audience uh message you know or ad at
exactly the right time because someone's
renewal is about to run up it could be
updating information in your CRM and
telling your sales rep to make a phone
call so those types of things I think
it's taking it much farther than just
the actual message that's sent and using
your data to inform those messages and
then create it more of a personalized
approach for every single person as
opposed to every single person just goes
through the exact same stream in the
exact same time always
yeah I like it I like it okay and we're
gonna dive into some of those topics and
some good use cases that businesses can
put into play
um to internal these things that you've
just laid out there
um but for businesses perhaps heard of
automation
um perhaps seen a few softwares SAS
Tools in play but isn't sure like what
are the main advantages that setting up
automation automated systems can
actually bring to the table
yeah again I think it kind of comes into
looking at the the modern landscape that
we're in uh if you look at uh the world
that we live in with technology data is
a currency right now and so I think
where businesses need to be focusing
today and where they need to be focusing
on is really leveraging that data
through their automation processes
to build out something that is very
robust within their own ecosystem and so
it's it's again kind of gone over the
days of just sending out the email but
really trying to like Leverage the data
that you have in front of you to make
informed decisions and report back to
yourself on that so it brings
consistency in your testing you then
learn from the testing you take those
learnings you apply them and then you
start to process over again and it's
just this continual cycle of try improve
repeat or maybe try fail okay let's undo
that we made a mistake now let's build
something to do and keep testing and
like I said it really comes back to how
you're leveraging the data that's being
gathered or collected throughout those
processes yeah yeah and when it comes to
processes all that specific ones I mean
does it vary for each company or all
that key channels that beats become as
you feel should optimize The Forum
ultimate in in European in there are
unique situations what I would say is I
think sometimes we make it overly
complicated generally speaking
um and I'll give you the example uh when
I was selling activecampaign as an
account executive I used the same
automation sequence for every single
demo I ever did I just changed the
storyline now I always made sure it was
relevant I always made sure that I was
pretty in the context of the pain points
but you can only send out and be so
creative with a welcome sequence right
there's different things like that so if
someone signs up for your email
newsletter
it's not going to be that different most
likely than the person that you know the
other person on the street sending out
of an email newsletter with that being
said though I think there are a cute few
core things that I would really
encourage people to think about with
automation so let's just say that you've
familiar with marketing automation
you've been using it maybe to send those
email newsletters that's fantastic
that's a great place to start everyone
should like start there
but then I would start asking yourself
what are going back to data what are
some of the data points that I could
leverage for my business so that might
be where you get into that uniqueness a
little bit uh an example of this would
be
uh for someone like yourself if you came
to me and said hey Adam uh what's one
data point that I should absolutely plug
into my business and I would say hey I
would tell you to build an automation
that says every time someone opens an
email from you or clicks on a link I
typically run both in my personal
accounts so I would say opens an email
clicks on a link I will update a custom
date field for last link click last open
rate date the reason I do that is if
someone goes more than say 60 days and
they don't open any of my emails and I
know that you know give or take they
should have received and let's just say
it's like 10 emails something's not
right I might want to send them a
breakup email or I might want to pull
them out of my active newsletter list
and start trying to Market to them on
again Facebook through a custom audience
or something like that it's a really
simple way I think where automations can
be leveraged to start saying hey what
data can I be gathering That's Unique or
maybe not so unique to my business that
will help me solve a problem or help me
engage better with my audience and then
to go from there and so that's where I
really encourage people to think about
the unique elements is looking at what
they need to be successful for their
business and then how can you automate
either the Gathering or the sending of
that information
yeah yeah it's a nice example so if like
you say if you're sending out a some
kind of email newsletter and you see
that someone hasn't opened it for a
certain period of time to to then get
back to them nachu says is this
something you're still interested in
whereas if you've got someone on the
other end of the spectrum that's
frequently opening and engaging in the
in the emails you're sending out
clicking through links
um spending quite a lot of time and then
maybe open them a lot of times I guess
you can put them into a another set of
uh audiences that perhaps
reminds the sales reps give them a call
or follow up or whatever that next part
of the process might be yeah I would say
that it would really come back to like
what you're trying to drive what's the
behavior that you're trying to drive so
for example some people are super pumped
when they just have opens because that's
what they're just trying to create that
engagement right that way but for some
businesses say like an e-commerce
business they probably want somebody to
be clicking on a link because that's how
they're going to make their money is
when people buy links so it's like if
you
say hey this person is open the last 100
emails but they've never once clicked on
a link is that a valuable customer like
do we want to be advertising to them do
we want to be spending that money on
them things like that on the flip side
maybe you get someone that only opens
every other email or every third email
but they always click on the link and
they make a purchase somewhat regularly
oh that's someone that we want to like
double down on and maybe try to see if
we can grow them or expand how they
interact with us right so it's again I
think it's looking at the behaviors that
you're trying to drive and then using
that automation to leverage that through
data and hopefully give you a better
result for your business
yeah sounds good so Adam let's let's do
a little activity here live on live on
the podcast so a lot of our audience are
going to be B2B the business owners or
marketers or perhaps even some sales
reps tuning in now a lot of B2B
organizations are going to want to
probably Drive prospects to their
website and ultimately get either
inbound demos or inbound leads and
ultimately get a sales conversation
fired up it's probably one of their main
motivations so I know you mentioned that
perhaps one of the starting points is
actually thinking about the data that
you want to capture but from that point
of view what should be some of the first
steps that a company like that puts into
play or thinks about before they
actually do any strategic or actionable
work when it comes to kind of setting up
some kind of marketing automation system
yeah so I'll tell you about what we've
been doing uh more recently so we've
just uh last October we launched a team
in active campaign called the customer
activation team which is what I lead and
we take in all of our trials off of the
website and our goal is to engage with
them
um and get them to do exactly what you
talked about have a conversation with us
really
um so the first thing that we do is the
we actually use our automations to sort
out uh what we would consider like good
or bad prospects what I mean by that is
with the amount of bots and things like
that online there's a lot of fake people
out there and you don't want human
capital going into sorting out fake
people so uh we might look at certain
domains or certain countries and say oh
we know these aren't any good just
because again they're bad actors or like
for us we actually block out active
campaign emails because we do a lot of
testing on our own tool so we're always
having developers and stuff like that
build trials I don't want a team member
wasting time so we cut those out
once that happens so once we kind of get
rid of the Flack I send them to a second
automation
and in that automation I start sorting
so I might look for a certain criteria
so for us again trials we look at
contact interest so you know how many
contacts they have number of employees
in their business depending on that we
determine the routing and then for us
again we look at the Geo so we have
teams in Brazil Latin America the UK or
not the UK excuse me Dublin OH I'm gonna
get in trouble for that one uh in Dublin
in Sydney Australia and then in America
and so we again try to optimize based on
location so we're sorting out who gets
what we're not just sending everything
to the same people right especially
related to time zones
and then what we do is we're actually
currently working on building a lead
scoring model within that so taking that
data even a step further and saying okay
cool we get uh let's just say you know
it's a fake number but 500 trials a day
that actually get all the way through
our our cutoffs and then that's what we
create deals for for opportunities for
yeah and so what we do now is we're
going to start prioritizing again based
on criteria that we see the highest
priority and I look at things like what
has the highest conversion rate what has
the highest lifetime value for active
campaign what has the highest churn
rates to me that's a really high value
Prospect so I I actually will give them
maybe a worse score or say hey let's
just automate the emails and if they
engage with us great but let's focus our
time on dials and messages like a
WhatsApp or text whatever it might be
again depending on your location some
places you can do that some places you
can't but right
um we'll we'll do that and so we're just
determining even the medium in which we
reach out so like for our Brazilian
teams they do almost a hundred percent
of their business on WhatsApp we don't
tell them to make tons of phone calls we
sent we're starting to send out the
emails all automatically and we just say
just start messaging them because that's
how your business culture engages with
you and so we're trying not to have a
one-size-fits-all approach and I think
that's the cool thing about automations
if I know something like Geo where I can
see what team the opportunity is
assigned to I can now have them go down
a unique path specific to the business
practices of that area
and then it goes from there and it might
not be a big Global thing it could be
something like in your country but you
have two sales teams one that works with
a specific Niche
um one that needs to be qualified out a
little bit more because of you know
again maybe there's some Bad actors and
so you want to like do some leg work
before you just jump on the phone with
them you can start again doing all that
sorting which used to be manual through
automations now and now you're focusing
your business on the things that are
going to yield you results and returns
as opposed to trying to sift through it
all on The Human Side which I think is
the biggest advantage to automations in
sales or for a growing B2B business is
getting rid of that wasted human time
and having your human time really focus
on what's going to yield you a positive
result for your business yes it's a good
example because especially for like
product lead growth SAS companies
businesses that maybe get a ton of free
users free signups whether that's the
usual 30-day sign up before you go onto
a paid plan or maybe they've got a free
plan for Life whatever it is but
typically the amount of free sign ups
that then convert into paid users is
very small I think the industry average
is what five percent or so foreign
apart from kind of all those
very much that you've just outlined for
us then Adam in terms of kind of
filtering out the poor emails making
sure you understand the geographies and
the the segments that you're going after
in terms of Geo locations and their
preferred channels and methods to
communicate and essentially filtering
out as much as you can setting up as
many systems in place as you can is
there any kind of other examples whether
that's with the actual messaging itself
or Outreach or any kind of lesser-known
strategies that you've seen success with
actually taking those free sign ups and
then converting them into paid customers
yeah I I think that
one of the things that we've been really
starting to focus on now is setting
ourselves up a framework where we can do
experimenting
um on those subject lines and why I
think that's important is
if I look at how my team interacts most
of the time they're using a template of
sorts right so if I can automate that
template now I can like start watching
it and seeing how it's performing the
other thing is that I can do tests very
very quickly
um in the world that we live in that
moves so fast with tech I think one of
the biggest mistakes that people make
with automations as a whole is that they
say to set it and forget it model
so they they take in they build
something and maybe it's hitting their
goals right like it's not that it's
doing bad it's like oh this is great
like we can we can work with this
and the one the market changes all the
time so it's constantly evolving the
other thing too is like looking at
opportunities for uh just like hey what
happens if we change this and this is
slightly like a slight shift but I'll
just give an example of this that we
just did recently we have chat Bots that
we use on our site to engage with my
team so that's another way that we're
actually trying to drive the
conversation is through chat within
trials specifically so that's outside of
the the CRM
we just ran a very simple experiment
where we changed like two words in our
our chat like hook to engage with the
customer and we increased our connection
rate from a 1.4 to 1.8 percent in less
than 24 hours
and now we are throwing that one against
the wall and trying something else like
we're just always testing and I want to
start doing the same thing inside of our
automations I don't think that you have
to go bananas with it and go every
single week but what I would say is
maybe once a quarter say hey we're going
to test we have five emails in our
sequence that you know are you know
automatically sent out we're going to
change the subject line on the first one
this month or this week right and we're
going to test it out and you kind of go
through this rotation of the cycle yeah
so I think that not being willing to
stay stagnant is is uh is really an
advantage that people can build for
themselves because I think that most
companies
get something in place as long as it's
like relatively close to their goals you
know maybe it's a click rate or open
rate or whatever it is and they're like
great or a number of meetings booked
even they're just Yep this is good if
we're hitting our numbers
um and not really pushing the envelope
as far as
hey can we do better working what can we
learn like what are the negative lessons
we can learn of what not to do like
there's other it goes both ways yeah and
I suppose there's quite a lot that you
can test out really like you mentioned
there whether it's email subject lines
the actual messaging inside the emails
itself how detailed or how
sure they are if they're personalized
very much to the specific Prospect if
they're talking about problems if
they're giving social proof if they're
getting case studies examples if they're
using like a jobs to be done framework
like I suppose there's so much that you
can test out that you've I suppose got
to give each a fair trial of a certain
timeline and then see how it differs to
what your current
kind of conversion rate is or
click-through rate is or open rate is on
the emails to see how it works 100 I
mean I've read use cases that even
people are changing the color of a call
to action button and that color getting
a higher click-through rate but then you
might want to say does it have a higher
click-through rate and a higher
conversion rate or does it just have a
higher click-through rate because you
know we can make the assumption that oh
higher clicks means more purchases but
maybe it's just a little bit flashier so
more people are clicking but the
conversion is actually not doing
anything okay so that's not really a win
if conversion is your goal right and so
I think
uh there's machine learning even within
some tools like activecampaign where you
can start testing out like sends what
time of day does it sends it'll start
trying to send emails at the right time
uh based on open rates
um there's lots of things like that so I
think that's the exciting part is like
where's where's it going to go uh in the
next few years as it starts to learn uh
our behaviors better and and how to
engage with the individual as opposed to
the masses
um I suppose that's where it gets tough
really is that in terms of
personalization at scale Adam is there
any examples that have worked well for
yourself or that you've seen out in the
field
um because I know that's the usual that
we always see where you can just kind of
pull in a prospect's name from I don't
know I think then you can pull in their
most recent job from LinkedIn and
everyone kind of people kind of become
tone deaf to this stuff after a while
don't they because I've seen that
personalization on every email which is
when you get more specific that you can
I guess hook people in but that's when
it takes more manual action I think that
personalization is a fantastic topic you
know when I say personalization I'm I am
not talking about just the email I think
that it has a part or excuse me the name
within the emails that's what it's going
for
um the reason I say that is I think that
that is a part of personalization
but in many ways that has become
personalization and so we need to
quickly change that mindset the best
example and this is one of my favorite
is actually a customer of ours they did
this several years ago now but it worked
just so unbelievably well it was a
customer based in Australia they sell uh
biodegradable dog poo bags and they what
they would do is they knew that you know
there was about a 60-day buy-in cycle
generally speaking
and so on someone would make the
purchase and on day 45 they would put
that person into a Facebook custom
audience and they weren't actually
trying to sell anything they were only
saying things like your dog loves you
because you're eco-friendly and they
were just giving these positive
affirmations for like two weeks solid
and then five days before they were
supposed to purchase again they would
pull the ads and they would start
sending emails that hey it's time to
renew your purchase you're bought out
and they saw huge success because they
were using this multifaceted approach
but what they were doing is they were
looking at every single person's
purchase date and uh you know the other
information they had to know when that
person should be purchasing again when
they needed to get their next bill for
their subscription and then they would
just do it automatically and they would
actually tailor the messaging and the
ads to those people based on that and I
think that that was such a fantastic
example is really simple but it it was
just a great example of someone using
two different ways of messaging to build
up to something and kind of hit this
peak in this Crescendo which I thought
was excellent so that that's probably my
favorite example that I've ever seen
someone throw in and I've used it that's
pretty cool yeah that's pretty cool
that's almost like uh almost like a
demand gen play really yeah like when
you get a prospect onto your website and
then perhaps you retarget them over time
with like case studies and use cases and
testimonials and all that good stuff
maybe on LinkedIn ads in a B2B scenario
um and then over time you're kind of
educating them on how the product works
and a problem it fixes but in this case
more of a d2c example are there any
other you mentioned about at the start
of our chat Adam about using data to
inform your messaging and we've mainly
been talking about kind of automation
through email flows but then you gave
quite a nice example there but there are
any other kind of ways that you can pull
data and flip it into other channels and
that perhaps companies should be
considering yeah I think a really simple
example is you know most companies let's
go back to your question about demos or
your pricing requests very very common
in the B2B space right sure most not all
but most uh forms for demos have
something that's like tell us about your
business
and I think what happens is a lot of
people gather that information and they
don't use it to their advantage
so if someone tells you about their
business and they give you a two or
three sentence answer about their pain
points whoever talks to them should not
go into that phone call asking them what
their pain points are they should go in
or even in the message you know if they
leave in a voicemail
hey you know Tommy I saw that you filled
out this form it looks like you're
having problems with this and you're
trying to solve x I believe we can help
you do that but if you could give me 15
minutes of your time I'd like to confirm
and if not I'll tell you right away and
we'll move on and so I think if you take
that type of approach it can again be on
that human side of things it doesn't
have to all be through email but it's
helping your team members make informed
calls or again those forms they often
collect a lot of information about like
what industry you are in
you could again just use the phone call
hey Tommy it seems that your uh industry
real estate is you know booming we've
seen a lot of your uh other Realtors
come in to our thing this is how we can
help them I'm going to send you a case
study in the email about it one that we
just helped a realtor you know 2x their
business over the course of a year by
doing this uh if I can't get you know
call me back right and so you can use
those things to your advantage it's all
about like what levers can you pull
really it's just leveraging it
and again I think that sometimes we get
so excited about being able to insert it
right into an email we forget that it
could literally inform the conversations
we have once we get somebody and it as
we all know like when you get on the
phone with a salesperson
you know that salesperson has about
three minutes to like either like make a
good impression or or probably blow it
and it the more that you can come to the
person and be empathetic to their
experience and not just lump them into
the box of what every single other
person wants every single other person
needs and you made them feel heard made
them feel important the much higher
likelihood that you have at least from
personal experience of actually closing
the business yeah yeah yeah for sure and
are there any big no-no's when it comes
to automation are there any big things
that companies should be sure to avoid
yeah I think that I mean this should go
without saying hopefully but if someone
asked to get off of your list
um you should take them off your list
right it's basic but there's still a lot
of businesses that say oh they
unsubscribe now I'm just going to call
them all the time or I'm gonna send the
messages on LinkedIn and I think that
CRM management and really if someone
unsubscribes you either need to give
them the option to say don't contact me
at all or only contact me you know
through certain means sometimes
marketing departments say well the law
says that we can still call them as long
as you know they try to wiggle around
this and I just think that that creates
a really poor customer experience so yes
technically you can do some of these
things what I would say for a big No-No
is treat others the way that you want to
be treated if you don't think that you
would like someone calling you five
times a day or whatever it is right like
you can go probably down to all the
extremes yep then you shouldn't do that
to your customer as well and I think
that again because of
you know companies like Amazon or Google
or Facebook that are taking
personalization to the next level
literally by knowing what you want to
like eat for dinner right that kind of
stuff which is a little creepy but it's
also amazing
when we do that I think that
people are not as content as they were
even five years ago with having
experience that feels vanilla or generic
they want something that makes them
again feel special and remember that how
someone interacts with your brand today
if they have a poor experience that's
much less likely that they'll come back
even if they say hey we're not a good
fit today
but if they had a good experience with
you they could send you other clients
they can refer you people they could
um do that and I mean I've seen that
where I had a guy once this was years
ago our tool wasn't nearly as built out
as it is today and he wanted something
that we just could not do yeah I
literally said HubSpot our competitor
can do this
and he's like what and I I like stopped
the call about five minutes and I was
like we're not a good fit for you
and he was like shocked by that well
then he started sending me customers
that were a good fit because he was had
a good experience and so that's
something that I always hammer on with
my team is how do we create a phenomenal
experience how do we reduce the amount
of people that someone has to talk to to
get the answer to their question like
something like that is really important
you know if you have to send through uh
three or four sales people just to get a
simple answer to a question you're
probably missing something we just
overhauled our entire process so that we
could reduce those types of experiences
to only the ones that were actually
needed it and we just want to help
people out so I think that looking at
those types of things is it sounds
really practical
but a lot of businesses just think about
the logistics of building and shipping
their The Experience not actually like
how it makes people feel and how people
are going to interact with it yeah right
really really good examples
um the last one just makes me think of
when companies hide pricing on their
website and then you have to speak to
like an SDR who passes you through to an
a who makes you book two other calls
just to get a price when the company
could have just put it on their website
and saved everyone time and hassle
um but no it's interesting actually I
put out a LinkedIn post earlier pretty
much along the premise of what you said
earlier really like
being having those upfront conversations
with prospects like you say if you're
not a good fit let them know early
um even recommend them to a perhaps a
trusted partner that you work with or
send leads each other way because it'll
it nearly always comes back to you like
that Prospect will remember that you're
up front that you didn't try to sell
them something they didn't need and like
you say they'll they'll refer business
your way because they'll remembered you
did them a good deed so yeah it's always
nearly always comes back in the good run
totally
nice example
um and like you say also having a system
whereby if prospects don't necessarily
go with you today
that you can stay top of mind with them
so in the B2B Organization for me that's
like connecting them on LinkedIn so they
see my daily tips whether that's asking
them if they want to be added to your
maybe weekly tips email or sending them
to your team's podcast so they can get
free tips if they want to do it
themselves again you're staying top of
mind you're not forcing stuff down your
neck you're just giving them the option
to consume your content on the channel
they prefer yeah and I think that again
we have to remember the power of Word of
Mouth right and it goes both ways yeah
especially what I've noticed in like the
B2B space with like say marketing this
is a pretty small community like there's
there's not
[Music]
tens of millions of people that do this
a lot of people know uh
you know they know people in their
region in their area things like this
and so if they have a really terrible
experience with you
and they go tell all of their friends
what a crappy experience they had with
you because some SDR
you know didn't know anything refused to
answer their questions and they get
frustrated whether they're right or
wrong or how the approach was it becomes
really it becomes difficult to manage
and I I think that that's where we just
have to remember that you know 20 years
ago the internet was not nearly as
developed as it is today right and so
people could have that bad experience
and they might tell their friend but
their friend's not going to go blasted
on social media or something like that
and it's just you know or nowadays
whenever someone's upset you go on
LinkedIn all the time you see it right
people are very upset and all it takes
is a few shares and that thing's got 20
30 000 views and it's not even that it's
not even that hard to make it go
semi-viral so I think that it's just
really important it doesn't mean you're
going to make everyone happy but I think
at least intentionally having the
mindset of we're gonna like think about
the experience we're going to try to be
intentional with the experience
that's a great starting place
awesome nice one well yeah good to chat
Adam I appreciate you coming on and
sharing all things automation both
online and offline as we've just chatted
through there so that's a please do tell
us more about how everyone tuning in can
learn more about yourself active
campaign and any way you'd like to to
send everyone tuning in yeah I would
just say for me you can follow me on
LinkedIn it's uh I think LinkedIn for
slash J Adam Taro uh give me a follow
let me know that you heard it here
that'd be great um and that way we can
grow the community for activecampaign I
would say that I would encourage
everyone to just go start a two-week
trial so we have a free two-week trial
no credit card or anything is needed
literally you can get in go test the
platform see the software you'll have
chat options inside of that trial where
you can ask questions if you need and I
would encourage everyone to ask
questions
um even if you don't plan on buying the
software today or you're just wanting
some information about what it could do
maybe you're in contract with another
tool feel free to just ask the questions
I think that you know again I do believe
in our our business for B2B businesses
and b2c businesses on the same time uh
we're not always the right fit for
everyone in this season and so we want
to have a straightforward conversation
with that so you should feel informed
but that two-week trial is just the
absolute best way to start it up
nice one that's a quick way for everyone
to to see your automation strategy as
well see if it see if it cut the map
cuts the mustard which I'm sure it will
sell so yeah thanks once again Adam
enjoy the chat thank you so much no
worries man and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick rating on Apple
or Spotify goes a long way or if you're
on YouTube a subscribers appreciated and
with that we'll catch you on the next
one for more no BS actionable B2B
marketing tips to grow your business and
revenue catch you on the next one cheers